Building a more Inclusive Workplace — Google Belonging Diversity report Jump to content Belonging Overview At work In products In products What we’re doing Accessibility in our products In society Key issues Key issues Racial equity Disability inclusion Gender equity LGBTQ+ inclusion Veteran inclusion Resources Resources Build inclusive products Build accessible technology Create inclusive marketing About Google Our mission, products, and impact More about our core commitments Belonging Expanding what’s possible for everyone Learning Unlocking opportunity with education & career tools Safety Center Keeping billions of people safe online Crisis Response Helping people with information in critical moments Sustainability Committed to being carbon free by 2030 Diversity report Who we are shapes the work we do. Here’s how we’re making sure every Googler feels seen, connected, supported, and empowered to participate fully: Todo Todo 30% increase in leadership representation of Black+, Latinx+, and Native American+ Googlers by 2025 (Opens in a Dialog Window) Close dialog window How we’re making progress on our representation goals Cinthia Lopez (she/her), Director of Talent Outreach at Google As of 2021, we've reached our goal of improving leadership representation of Black+, Latino+, and Native American+ Googlers by 30%, and we're on track to double Black+ representation throughout our U.S. offices by 2025. As we work towards our representation goals, we're focusing on more than just hiring. Our recruiting leads are working closely with internal groups like the Black Googler Network to improve hiring, progression, and retention for underrepresented groups at Google. We're launching new onboarding programs for all Black Googlers, and doubling down on our commitment to support Googlers of color through expanded mental health resources, and through internal mentorship programs like Stay and Thrive. We're driving allyship and holding leaders accountable by incorporating diversity, equity, and inclusion into performance reviews for all vice president+ levels. We're also focusing on hiring more employees of color in key growth sites, and we're working with external partner organizations and Minority Serving Institutions in order to strengthen pathways to careers in tech for those historically excluded from the industry. Working to better recruit, hire, and build with the disability community (Opens in a Dialog Window) Close dialog window How we’re working to better recruit, hire, and co-create with Googlers with disabilities Aubrie Lee (she/her), President of The Disability Alliance at Google Googlers with disabilities make critical contributions across the company. We’re actively working to make Google a place where everyone can learn, grow, and have an impact. Here are a few ways we’re doing it: Launched a new careers site to better recruit people with disabilities, including information about workplace accommodations Created a training on Disability Fundamentals for managers at Google, then partnered with Disability:In to make the course available to their partner companies. Cultivating community through Disability Alliance, our internal employee resource group (ERG), which was named ERG of the Year 2020 by Disability:IN Joined the Valuable 500 as one of 14 iconic companies, working to “co-create solutions which will transform the business system to be more inclusive of people with disabilities.?? Supporting the intersectional communities at Google with Self-ID (Opens in a Dialog Window) Close dialog window Supporting the intersectional communities at Google with Self-ID To build a workforce that’s representative of our users, we need to have a thorough picture of our employee demographics. Self-ID is an initiative providing intersectional data of our workforce communities and informing impactful diversity, equity, and inclusion (DEI) programming and resources to help our diverse Googlers thrive at work. When Google began collecting DEI data in 2014, we gathered only the information we were obligated to report to the U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, including race, ethnicity, and binary gender. Although this gave us a preliminary glimpse into the employee demographics, it had its limitations. In January 2019, we launched Self-ID, a voluntary self-identification survey that collects data on many aspects of identity. Now Googlers can quickly and easily choose to disclose if they have a disability, have served in the military, or if they’re nonbinary, LGBQ+, and/or Trans+. We’ve been able to expand our data sets in the U.S. and globally – in countries where legally permissible. Self-ID is already creating impact, both internally and for the industry. For example, within Google we’ve used the data of those who self-identified as having a disability to set company-wide goals focused on improving product accessibility and disability inclusion. For the industry at large, Self-ID creates a new metric of data that allows us to inspire other companies and organizations to ramp up their DEI efforts and foster a sense of belonging in culture. Read our 2022 Diversity Annual Report Who we are shapes the work we do. Unmute Mute Play audio and video Play video (audio currently muted) Pause audio Marnie Florin (they/them, ze/hir, ze/zir, ey,em) Retention & Progression Consultant, Google Read the transcript (Opens in a Dialog Window) Close dialog window “I’m Marnie Florin. I’m a parent. I’m trans. I’m nonbinary. I’m currently pregnant. I’m Jewish. I identify as neurodiverse with ADHD. Being able to bring my authentic self to work is so important because it means that I’m not expending additional energy thinking about what are other people thinking of me, versus being able to put that energy toward just doing a good job in my role.?? “I don’t want to be at a place that shows me empathy because I’m Black. I want to be in a place where people are comfortable to have radical candor with me.?? Mzamo Masito (he/him) Director, Marketing Sub-Saharan Africa, Google Listen Pause audio Pause When we’re together we thrive. 52 countries represented 16+ Employee Resource Groups 250+ chapters globally 35K participating Googlers Meet the community-driven groups providing support and making an impact: Africans@Google Asian Google Network Black Googler Network Disability Alliance Filipino Googler Network Google Aboriginal & Indigenous Network Google Veterans Network Greyglers Hispanic Googlers Network Indus Google Network Inter Belief Network CAMENA (Caucasia, Central Asia, Middle East, and North Africa) Mixed Googlers PRIDE at Google Trans at Google Women@Google Africans@Google Supporting Africans at Google As part of the Black Googler Network, Africans@Google is focused on building and maintaining a community that feels like home for Africans at Google while providing a platform to bring awareness to Google and the tech community about Africa-focused initiatives. Asian Google Network Supporting the diverse and multicultural Asian community at Google The Asian Google Network (AGN) aims to engage and support the Asian community at Google. AGN focuses on programs around career development, racial awareness, health and wellness, product inclusion, and culture. Each year, thousands of Googlers participate in efforts from the annual mentorship program to Asian Pacific American Heritage Month activities. Black Googler Network Supporting the Black community at Google The Black Googler Network (BGN) is an employee resource group of Googlers with a mission to cultivate Black leaders at Google and beyond, empower the communities where we operate, and transform the tech industry to reflect the diversity of its users. Members of BGN create community for one another through participation in events, discussions, and celebrations (i.e., Black History Month and Juneteenth) centered around the diverse topics that most impact the Black+ community. BGN members take pride in sharing their time and talent with one another as well as the greater community outside Google. Disability Alliance Nothing About Us Without Us The Disability Alliance (DA) is an employee resource group for disabled people and their allies. We share advice, build awareness, and advocate for Disability inclusion in Google and Alphabet products, programs, and practices. Filipino Googler Network Celebrating the Filipino community at Google The Filipino Googler Network (FGN) focuses on organizing internal events that help build a stronger sense of belonging, creating programs that encourage professional development, and finding opportunities to connect with the wider global Filipino community. Google Aboriginal & Indigenous Network Supporting Indigenous and Aboriginal communities The Google Aboriginal & Indigenous Network (GAIN) is dedicated to bringing the influence of Aboriginal and Indigenous Peoples to Google employees and Google users through product inclusion, social responsibility initiatives, and internal efforts related to hiring and retention. GAIN also builds relationships between Google teams and external Aboriginal & Indigenous-led nonprofits and organizations. Google Veterans Network Supporting veterans and military families The Google Veterans Network (VetNet) is an internal community of military veterans, service members, civilian allies, and families dedicated to unifying, connecting, and serving the military community. Greyglers Creating community for Googlers “of a certain age?? The Greyglers help Google succeed by sharing their experience and by advocating for the needs of Googlers and users as they age. Greyglers advocate for age positive policy change within Google, promote awareness of age diversity and issues related to age, and support transitions throughout Googler careers, so that Google remains a workplace that works for everyone. Hispanic Googlers Network Supporting the Latinx community at Google HOLA’s members are committed to the inclusion, advancement, and representation of Hispanic/Latinx Googlers worldwide. HOLA strives to build community through education and celebration of Hispanic/Latinx culture. With the intention of making both an internal and external impact, HOLA provides mentorship opportunities and empowers volunteer opportunities in the Hispanic/Latinx community. HOLA stands in support of racial equity and intersectional justice, and all those who seek it. Indus Google Network Connecting with the South Asian community at Google The Indus Googler Network (IGN) aims to build a platform for professional and social activities for those with an affinity for South Asian culture. IGN activities include community service, outreach programs, and cultural celebrations such as Diwali and Holi. Inter Belief Network Promoting inclusion at work and in Google’s products for a diversity of belief-based or belief-related communities The Inter Belief Network (IBN) aims to create a culture of inclusion, tolerance, and mutual understanding at Google for a diversity of beliefs, where Googlers of all beliefs feel welcome, included, and supported. IBN also aims to ensure that the voices of belief-based communities are represented in Google’s products. IBN consists of multiple member chapters representing specific communities of interest, including but not limited to: Buddhists, Christians, Jews and Muslims. CAMENA (Caucasia, Central Asia, Middle East, and North Africa) Supporting Googlers of nationalities or ethnicities in the CAMENA geographical region CAMENA aims to provide a platform for empowerment, mentorship, and networking of the diverse and multicultural Caucasian, Central Asian, Middle Eastern, and North African communities and to strengthen communication and collaboration with other Googlers, culturally and professionally. Mixed Googlers Supporting the mixed race and mixed ethnicity community at Google The Mixed Googlers employee resource group is a dedicated community for mixed race and mixed ethnicity Googlers and allies. Mixed Googlers hold fun socials, interesting talks on important topics, and share helpful resources. PRIDE at Google Creating a supportive, inclusive Google for LGBTQ+ employees PRIDE at Google is comprised of LGBTQ+ Googlers and their allies. The group not only leads the way in celebrating LGBTQ+ people year round, but also informs product inclusion, programs and policies, so that Google and its products work for everyone. Trans at Google Advocating for transgender, transsexual, genderqueer, genderfluid, agender, gender variant, intersex, nonbinary and questioning employees Trans at Google seeks to ensure that the company’s products and policy stances are inclusive of all gender identities and expressions. Trans at Google also highlights the needs and concerns of our users from trans and gender-nonconforming communities globally. Women@Google Advocating for gender equity Women@Google is our largest global employee network and is committed to empowering all women at Google by connecting, developing, and retaining female talent; creating a culture of inclusion; and making social impact in local communities. Women@ provides networking and mentoring opportunities, professional development, and community to Googler women across 52 countries. Unmute Mute Play audio and video Play video (audio currently muted) Pause audio Xuan Yang (she/her) Senior Software Engineer, Google Read the transcript (Opens in a Dialog Window) Close dialog window “As a woman in an engineering field, there are a lot of challenges. But inside Google, there are all kinds of mentorship programs to help people meet each other and build career connections. I actually have mentored several interns, and also I have been mentored. And through all those activities, I have the feeling that I'm making contributions and helping others in this community.?? “I think what's been really exciting for me is the ability to take something small, like kicking off a ML fairness project, and then being able to build that into a much bigger experience for the organization into eventually culture change, into something that's ingrained in our goals and our best practices.?? Tulsee Doshi (she/her) Head of Product - Responsible AI, Google Listen Pause audio Pause More ways we’re building belonging in our workplace: This engineer creates community for Indigenous Googlers Going beyond DEI to build belonging and push the industry forward How Googlers are making unseen disability visible at work A Googler's impact on future Latino leaders Read more belonging stories on our blog (Opens in a New Browser Tab) Explore more of our belonging work We expanded how we help Googlers thrive at work, reaching hiring and retention milestones. Read our 2022 Diversity Annual Report john a. powell’s philosophy on belonging is guiding our work. Learn more about the philosophy Footer Links Building belonging At work In products In society Our philosophy Key issues Racial equity Disability inclusion Gender equity LGBTQ+ inclusion Veteran inclusion Resources Build inclusive products Build accessible technology Accessibility in our products Create inclusive marketing (Opens in a New Browser Tab) Reports Diversity Report 2022 Diversity Report 2021 Diversity Report 2020 (Opens in a New Browser Tab) Diversity Report 2019 (Opens in a New Browser Tab) Diversity Report 2018 (Opens in a New Browser Tab) EEO-1 Report 2021 (Equal Employment Opportunity) (Opens in a New Browser Tab) EEO-1 Report 2020 (Equal Employment Opportunity) (Opens in a New Browser Tab) EEO-1 Report 2019 (Equal Employment Opportunity) (Opens in a New Browser Tab) More about us Learning (Opens in a New Browser Tab) Safety Center (Opens in a New Browser Tab) Crisis Response (Opens in a New Browser Tab) Sustainability (Opens in a New Browser Tab) Careers (Opens in a New Browser Tab) Google blog (Opens in a New Browser Tab) Google.org (Opens in a New Browser Tab) About Google Google products Privacy Terms Cambiar idioma Español
