Building a More Inclusive Society — Google Belonging Diversity report Jump to content Belonging Overview At work In products In products What we’re doing Accessibility in our products In society Key issues Key issues Racial equity Disability inclusion Gender equity LGBTQ+ inclusion Veteran inclusion Resources Resources Build inclusive products Build accessible technology Create inclusive marketing About Google Our mission, products, and impact More about our core commitments Belonging Expanding what’s possible for everyone Learning Unlocking opportunity with education & career tools Safety Center Keeping billions of people safe online Crisis Response Helping people with information in critical moments Sustainability Committed to being carbon free by 2030 Diversity report We’re making commitments at scale to address some of society’s biggest barriers to belonging. Sharing our learnings to build inclusive and accessible creative Every creative choice marketers make has the power to shape how we see ourselves and each other. In efforts to propel better work that both resonates with and accurately represents people with disabilities we’ve expanded All In, our inclusive marketing toolkit, to include new insights on accessible marketing. Explore our playbook (Opens in a New Browser Tab) “It’s empowering to have that knowledge that nobody can take away from you.?? Danette Matthews (she/her) Applied Digital Skills Student “#IamRemarkable validated what I’d always believed: you have to take charge of your own narrative.?? Chris Eugenio (he/him) Empowerment Program Attendee “When someone invests in you and trusts in you, it does something transformative inside of you.?? William Goodwin (he/him) UpTogether Community Member “The support from the grant has given me the opportunity to provide services to the communities I live and work in.?? Shayai Lucero (she/her) NCAI Grantee Economic opportunity Education Representation Accelerating impact We're investing in underserved communities to expand economic opportunity. Economic Opportunity Economic Opportunity Increasing access to capital and training to help underserved small businesses grow (Opens in a Dialog Window) Close dialog window Tools, trainings, and resources for small businesses from Grow with Google Over the past two years, technology has served as a safety net for small business owners, helping them find new customers and keep their doors open. In a 2021 survey, 78% of small businesses said that digital tool adoption during the pandemic created more opportunities for their businesses, and more than 80% of Black- and Latino-owned small businesses reported that they use digital tools as a key part of their operations. To help our economy recover, we’ve provided capital, training, and resources to small businesses. To help underserved small businesses gain access to critical capital, we committed $185 million to Opportunity Finance Network (OFN) to establish the Grow with Google Small Business Fund and OFN’s Grant Program funded by Google.org. The fund delivered low-interest loans to over 50 Community Development Financial Institutions (CDFIs), who in turn provided loans to tens of thousands of underserved small businesses, including $50 million to support Black-owned businesses. We’ve helped more than 8 million Americans grow their skills, careers, and businesses through Grow with Google digital skills trainings. A network of 8,000 partner organizations — including America’s SBDC, SCORE, and the National LGBT Chamber of Commerce (NGLCC) — helps to extend the reach to underrepresented small business owners. The Grow with Google Digital Coaches program provides hands-on coaching and digital skills workshops to Black and Latino small business owners in English and Spanish. These local experts have trained 100,000+ small business owners across the U.S., thanks to support from partner organizations. We’re working with the U.S. Hispanic Chamber of Commerce to train 10,000 Latino small business owners on how to use digital tools to adapt and thrive via Grow with Google digital resource centers. In partnership with the National Congress of American Indians (NCAI) and Grow with Google, the Indian Country Digital Trainers program provides support for businesses in tribal nations and communities. For National Veterans Small Business Week, we offered a livestream workshop to help Veteran business owners grow a loyal customer base and a Grow with Google OnAir workshop to help businesses build an online presence. To further support Veteran-led businesses, Grow with Google curated Primer app lessons covering topics from digital marketing to website building. And we teamed up with Hiring Our Heroes to add additional Primer mini-courses on establishing an authentic brand and maintaining work-life balance. Helping underrepresented startup founders succeed with access to capital, training, and mentorship (Opens in a Dialog Window) Close dialog window Training, resources, and funding for startup founders from Google for Startups If startups succeed, communities and economies succeed. Google for Startups is working to connect startup founders with people, products, and best practices to help their businesses thrive and grow. Here are a few of the programs aimed at supporting founders from underrepresented groups: Programs like Black Founders Exchange, hosted by American Underground and Google for Startups, and Google for Startups Founders Academy, are helping to build systems of mentorship and networking for underrepresented founders. Google for Startups Accelerators, like Black Founders and Women Founders, provide access to Google’s people, networks, and advanced technology to help founders solve technical challenges specific to their businesses. The Google for Startups Black Founders Fund and Latino Founders Fund provide selected U.S. founders with up to $100,000 in non-dilutive capital along with Google Cloud credits, Google.org Ad Grants, and hands-on support to help their startup grow. The first $10 million in awards to Black founders, and community support facilitated by Goodie Nation, has already created a halo effect, helping founders to raise over $75 million in venture capital since 2020. To support the military-affiliated community, Google for Startups teamed up with organizations including Bunker Labs to scale their impact to new cities across the U.S. and offer one-on-one mentorship from Google advisors to Veterans looking to start their own business. Making digital skills training accessible to Americans (Opens in a Dialog Window) Close dialog window Helping people develop digital skills to grow their careers It’s estimated that half of the U.S. workforce will need to reskill by 2025, and workers of color are disproportionately impacted by the skills gap. We’re working to help people advance their careers by making digital skills accessible to everyone. To date, we have helped nearly 170,000 Americans get a new job and increase their income through digital skills training. Google’s Applied Digital Skills program provides lessons on how to create a resume, how to communicate effectively at work, and more. Google Career Certificates are flexible online courses, available in English and subtitled in Spanish, designed to prepare students for entry-level jobs in high-growth fields like IT Support, data analytics, and UX design. Our recent $100 million Google Career Certificates Fund aims to enable Google.org grantee, Social Finance to reach more than 20,000 American workers. This investment in America’s future has the potential to drive $1 billion in wage gains. Grow with Google Career Readiness programs help students develop skills to secure internships and jobs that will help them build successful careers. We partner with the Thurgood Marshall College Fund (TMCF), the Hispanic Association of Colleges and Universities (HACU) and Partnership with Native Americans (PWNA), to bring digital skills and workforce training to Historically Black Colleges and Universities (HBCUs), Hispanic-Serving Institutions (HSIs), and Native-Serving Organizations (NSOs). Together, we’ll train more than 250,000 students by 2025. We work with a network of external organizations to deliver our job seeker trainings to communities of color. For example, in partnership with Dress for Success, The Links, Inc., and sororities in the National Pan-Hellenic Council, Grow with Google created Black Women Lead, an initiative to train 100,000 Black women in digital skills by 2022. We’ve also partnered with the Hispanic Federation and the Latino Community Foundation, and have helped 10,000 individuals upskill through digital skills and job readiness trainings so far. We’re working to support Veterans, service members, and military spouses and partners in transition to the civilian workforce. We also added minicourses on the Primer app specifically for military spouses and partners on topics including transitioning to remote work, working from home, and starting and growing an online business. Through our Grow with Google Partner Program we work with over 1,000 military and Veteran-serving organizations across the U.S. who propel our workshops and have trained nearly 20,000 people in the military-affiliated community so far. Google employee’s quote Unmute Mute Play audio and video Play video (audio currently muted) Pause audio Shanika Hope, PhD (she/her) Director, Tech Education, Google Read the transcript (Opens in a Dialog Window) Close dialog window “I’m a director of tech education at Google. The work that I do is helping individuals that are historically invisible in tech careers. The why that drives a lot of my personal and professional investments are connected to the fact that I was an orphan. I see myself as a force for good trying to solve really hard problems for individuals whose voice typically may not be heard. So when I look at our approach to technology, I immediately think about what would the ten year old Shanika experience be like? I bring all of that with me every time that I sit at the table.?? We’re working to close the computer science access gap through exposure and education. We’re working to close the computer science access gap through exposure and education. We’re working to close the computer science access gap through exposure and education. $80M+ from Google.org to expand computer science education (Opens in a Dialog Window) Close dialog window Expanding computer science education through support for innovative nonprofits Students from marginalized groups face major barriers to computer science education, including lack of exposure and lack of opportunity. To expand computer science (CS) education and help all students develop future skills, we partner directly with innovative organizations and support nonprofits through Google.org funding. Since 2013, we’ve given over $80 million to support innovative nonprofits around the world. Code Next: A program that meets high school students in their own communities (Opens in a Dialog Window) Close dialog window Google’s Code Next program for high school students Code Next is a computer science education program that meets Black, Latinx, and Native high school students in their own communities with help from local nonprofits, research organizations, and schools. The program provides the skills and inspiration students need for successful careers in computer science–related fields. Of the recent 12th grade graduates, 91.5% of them were accepted to and are attending college or higher education programs. Of those graduates, 88.4% are majoring in a STEM field in college, with 58.1% specifically naming computer science or information systems as their major. CS First: Making coding easy and fun for students from 4th to 8th grade (Opens in a Dialog Window) Close dialog window CS First: A computer science curriculum that makes coding easy and fun The Code with Google program, CS First, is an introductory computer science curriculum designed for students in 4th to 8th grade that has helped over 60,000 teachers reach more than 2 million students in 100+ countries. CS First curriculum makes computer science learning effective and fun while leveling the computer science playing field. Students watch easy-to-follow instructional videos related to their interests that introduce core CS concepts. Using a problem-solving approach, students create coding projects that align to various subject areas like sports, art, and game design, and showcase their creativity. Start learning at Code with Google (Opens in a New Browser Tab) Google employee’s quote Unmute Mute Play audio and video Play video (audio currently muted) Pause audio Suzanne DePoe (she/her) Test Engineer, Google Read the transcript (Opens in a Dialog Window) Close dialog window “Being an Indigenous woman, I’m really passionate about reaching out to students and ensuring that we’re not overlooking rural America and those students that are trying to strive to do well in the STEM area. Working with the Alaska Native Science & Engineering Program has allowed me to bring students the resources necessary to help grow their imagination in technology. It’s pretty exciting when you see youth just really expand their vision and think of the future.?? We’re centering underrepresented voices to make media that better reflects the world. We’re centering underrepresented voices to make media that better reflects the world. We’re centering underrepresented voices to make media that better reflects the world. Fighting for equity and representation in journalism through the Google News Initiative (Opens in a Dialog Window) Close dialog window Fighting for equity and representation in journalism through the Google News Initiative The Google News Initiative (GNI) is deeply committed to supporting quality journalism from trusted sources and voices that reflect the diversity of the world we live in. Here are a few ways the GNI is working to make the news industry more diverse, innovative, and inclusive: Supporting research to better understand challenges in the industry: GNI provides funding for research projects that help shed light on representation in the industry like a study from Media Diversity Australia, which revealed that over 76% of journalists on Australian screens were found to have an Anglo-Celtic background. Developing tools and programs to help make journalism more inclusive: In 2021, GNI helped VideoOut to create the LGBTQ+ Language and Media Literacy Program, a tool that equips journalists with the knowledge to use LGBTQ+ vocabulary respectfully and accurately. The GNI Ad Transformation Lab is a program designed to support publishers serving underrepresented communities in their transition to digital. The program aims to help bridge the technology gap and improve advertising revenue for participating publications. The Women in News Leadership Programme provides a forum to learn, connect, and grow for women leaders in news organizations across Europe, Middle East, and Africa. Providing economic support for organizations serving underrepresented communities: GNI Global News Equity Fund is a multimillion dollar commitment to provide non-dilutive cash awards up to $250,000 to news organizations owned by or serving underrepresented communities around the world. The GNI supports innovative organizations like Capital B, a Black-led, nonprofit local and national news organization that aims to combat misinformation and fill the basic information needs of Black residents in areas where they are underserved. $100M #YouTubeBlack Voices Fund to amplify Black creators (Opens in a Dialog Window) Close dialog window #YouTubeBlack Voices Fund: A commitment to amplify Black creators, music, and culture In 2020, we launched the #YouTubeBlack Voices Fund, a global multi year commitment dedicated to spotlighting and growing Black creators and music on our platform, by giving them access to resources to help them thrive on YouTube. In our first two years, we welcomed 320 grantees hailing from the U.S, Kenya, the United Kingdom, Brazil, Australia, South Africa, and Nigeria. Sharing our learnings on inclusive marketing to support industry-wide progress (Opens in a Dialog Window) Close dialog window Sharing our learnings on inclusive marketing to support industry-wide progress After an inclusivity audit of our own marketing revealed many areas to improve, we partnered with external inclusion experts to build a set of resources and principles to help us tell stories more equitably. To help accelerate progress in the industry at large, we’ve made our All In inclusive marketing toolkit available for everyone to use. Google employee’s quote When you see yourself and your community represented authentically in ads and marketing, that means that there’s a place for you in society. Most importantly, it means that there’s people like you out there that exist and you're not alone. Tara Mckenty (she/her) Creative Head, Brand Studio APAC, Google Listen Pause audio Pause We’re accelerating the impact of changemaking nonprofits through Google.org. We’re accelerating the impact of changemaking nonprofits through Google.org. We’re accelerating the impact of changemaking nonprofits through Google.org. Funding for innovative nonprofits and social enterprises around the globe (Opens in a Dialog Window) Close dialog window Funding for innovative nonprofits and social enterprises around the globe Wadhwani AI, a Google.org Impact Challenge grantee Each year, Google.org grants hundreds of millions of dollars to social enterprises and nonprofits around the globe to help stimulate innovative approaches to solving problems, and provide comprehensive support for underserved communities. For example, the Google.org Impact Challenge supports nonprofits and social enterprises working to make their community — and beyond — a better place. Every challenge invites ideas that tackle a specific problem or support a particular community. The best and boldest ideas are given a strategic package of funding, mentorship, and technical support. Sharing our technology, products, and research with those driving change (Opens in a Dialog Window) Close dialog window Fueling changemakers’ efforts by sharing access to our research, technology, and products Google.org Fellowship grantee, Hack the Hood By making our research, open source technology, and products accessible to nonprofits and civic entities, we help fuel their work and problem-solving efforts. Here are some ways we’ve accelerated our partners’ impact through our technology: Google’s flood forecasting efforts, in partnership with governments, have improved the granularity and lead time of flood alerts; however, some who lack access to the internet may not receive this timely information. Google.org worked with the Red Cross to build local networks that can get disaster alert information to people who wouldn’t otherwise receive smartphone alerts directly. In 2019, a team of Google.org Fellows used machine learning to help UpTogether (formerly known as Family Independence Initiative) make its data more useful in sharing with collaborators and impacting policy. Google.org has supported UpTogether in its mission to help families escape poverty since 2015. Since 2017, Google.org has supported Goodwill Industries International with grants and pro bono support to create their Digital Career Accelerator, improve their infrastructure, and analyze data to improve training programs and services for job seekers. 50K+ pro bono hours committed every year through the Google.org Fellowship (Opens in a Dialog Window) Close dialog window Assisting nonprofits and civic entities with pro bono work and technical expertise Google.org Fellows working on disaster relief efforts The Google.org Fellowship matches Google employees with nonprofits and civic entities for up to six months on full-time technical projects, with the aim of helping tackle some of the world’s toughest technical challenges. Here are a few ways our Fellows have been helpful in recent years: Helping to build tools that aid with COVID-19 response efforts, for example: Global.health, a data repository designed to model the virus’s trajectory and track its variants The National Domestic Workers Alliance benefits tool, to distribute emergency cash funds to essential workers Crisis Contact Simulator, a tool that uses AI to simulate conversations with LGBTQ youth in crisis to help train counselors at The Trevor Project Supporting organizations in the fight for racial justice. Helping to: Scale the Center for Policing Equity’s National Justice Database Develop the first real-time, publicly accessible local jail data set alongside the Vera Institute of Justice Redesign Measures for Justice’s comparative performance data portal, which is being used to inform policies and advance reform Learn more at Google.org (Opens in a New Browser Tab) Google employee’s quote Unmute Mute Play audio and video Play video (audio currently muted) Pause audio Hector Mujica (he/him) Economic Opportunity Lead, Americas, Google.org Read the transcript (Opens in a Dialog Window) Close dialog window “Coming to this country as an immigrant, there was definitely a belonging conversation that was core to that journey – trying to assimilate and integrate into the fabric of this society, and then, entering a space like tech, that has historically been underrepresented for Latinos. And that is why for me, it’s so important to ensure that I’m doing everything within my power to facilitate that process of belonging for others.?? More ways we’re building belonging in society: These 25 publishers want to know their communities Our new $100 million Google Career Certificates Fund Meet 3 Black women pushing for inclusivity in tech How we’re creating career pathways for the military-affiliated community Read more belonging stories on our blog (Opens in a New Browser Tab) Explore more of our belonging work Every Googler should feel seen, supported, connected, and empowered to participate fully. Learn about our efforts in the workplace Helpful technology enables everyone to pursue their goals. Find out how we’re building our products Footer Links Building belonging At work In products In society Our philosophy Key issues Racial equity Disability inclusion Gender equity LGBTQ+ inclusion Veteran inclusion Resources Build inclusive products Build accessible technology Accessibility in our products Create inclusive marketing (Opens in a New Browser Tab) Reports Diversity Report 2022 Diversity Report 2021 Diversity Report 2020 (Opens in a New Browser Tab) Diversity Report 2019 (Opens in a New Browser Tab) Diversity Report 2018 (Opens in a New Browser Tab) EEO-1 Report 2021 (Equal Employment Opportunity) (Opens in a New Browser Tab) EEO-1 Report 2020 (Equal Employment Opportunity) (Opens in a New Browser Tab) EEO-1 Report 2019 (Equal Employment Opportunity) (Opens in a New Browser Tab) More about us Learning (Opens in a New Browser Tab) Safety Center (Opens in a New Browser Tab) Crisis Response (Opens in a New Browser Tab) Sustainability (Opens in a New Browser Tab) Careers (Opens in a New Browser Tab) Google blog (Opens in a New Browser Tab) Google.org (Opens in a New Browser Tab) About Google Google products Privacy Terms Cambiar idioma Español
