LGBTQ+ Inclusion in the Workplace and Beyond — Google Belonging Diversity report Jump to content Belonging Overview At work In products In products What we’re doing Accessibility in our products In society Key issues Key issues Racial equity Disability inclusion Gender equity LGBTQ+ inclusion Veteran inclusion Resources Resources Build inclusive products Build accessible technology Create inclusive marketing About Google Our mission, products, and impact More about our core commitments Belonging Expanding what’s possible for everyone Learning Unlocking opportunity with education & career tools Safety Center Keeping billions of people safe online Crisis Response Helping people with information in critical moments Sustainability Committed to being carbon free by 2030 Diversity report Authenticity should always be embraced. We’re working to create spaces of belonging for LGBTQ+ We are using the term LGBTQ+, but we recognize the broad spectrum of intersectional identities within this group, and we acknowledge the limitations of using one term to represent these communities fully. As language evolves, we will continue to adapt our terminology. communities. How we’re building for LGBTQ+ inclusion We’re building on a long history of supporting LGBTQ+ communities in our workplace. Read about our work (Opens in a Dialog Window) Close dialog window How we’ve shown up for LGBTQ+ Googlers over the years Googlers Mohit Jolly (he/him) and Adam Wright (he/him) in front of Stonewall Park Since the very beginning, we’ve made it a priority to make Google a place where LGBTQ+ communities feels welcome and respected. Here are a few of the ways we’ve shown up for LGBTQ+ Googlers over the years: In 2003, our very first employee resource group, the Gayglers (later renamed PRIDE at Google), was created by LGBTQ+ Googlers. In 2005, Googlers marched together in San Francisco’s Pride parade for the first time. Growing numbers of Googlers have continued to do so in Pride celebrations around the world every year since. In 2009, Googlers marched in cities around the U.S. to honor the 40th anniversary of the Stonewall riots Having earlier spoken out in support of same-sex marriage, in 2010, we extended health insurance and family or medical leave benefits to same-sex partners for Googlers in the U.S. Today, we offer health coverage for all Googlers and their spouses or partners of any gender, nearly everywhere in the world. In 2011, we pioneered transgender-inclusive healthcare benefits to cover transitioning procedures and treatment. In 2019, for the first time, our Diversity Report included data on the representation of employees who have chosen to self-identify as LGBTQ+, as well as nonbinary genders. We’re designing tools that honor LGBTQ+ spaces and experiences. Explore the Google Maps features (Opens in a Dialog Window) Close dialog window Boosting support for spaces of belonging through Google tools and technology Arley Torsone (he/him) and Morgan Calderini (she/her) of Ladyfingers Letterpress, an LGBTQ-friendly business For LGBTQ+ communities, spaces to belong make a big impact – they’re places of validation, safety, community, and joy. We’re working to celebrate and protect these spaces through our tools. Businesses can identify themselves as spaces of belonging by using the business attributes, LGBTQ-friendly, Trangender safespace, and gender-neutral restrooms. These attributes help people find and support these businesses, which are so vital to LGBTQ+ communities. We’ve added LGBTQ+ points of interest on Google Maps, to help everyone honor important cultural landmarks and murals like the Black Trans Lives Matter Mural in San Francisco or the Gay Liberation Monument in New York. We’re working to uplift LGBTQ+ small businesses and help them grow. Read about our work (Opens in a Dialog Window) Close dialog window Celebrating the success of LGBTQ-owned small businesses Celebrating the success of LGBTQ+ small businesses is an important way to build belonging and inspire others. That’s why we’re working to elevate the stories of thriving LGBTQ+ small businesses, and provide support and resources to help them and others continue to grow and nourish their communities. In honor of Transgender Awareness Week in 2020, we told the story of gc2b, a business owned by Marli Washington (he/him). Marli’s story is an example of the positive ripple effect that LGBTQ+ businesses have on LGBTQ+ communities and businesses. In 2021, we built an interactive experience to celebrate inclusive spaces that foster belonging and support for LGBTQ+ communities around the world, like the the Magic City Acceptance Center in Alabama and the GALA Queer Archive in Johannesburg. We launched a resource hub to help business owners create more inclusive businesses and to connect LGBTQ+ businesses with mentorship and networking opportunities. The hub also includes guidance on how to add helpful attributes to a business profile, including LGBTQ+ friendly, Transgender safespace, and Gender-neutral restroom. $12M+ in cash and Ad Grants to 90+ organizations working to support LGBTQ+ communities globally Learn about our commitments (Opens in a Dialog Window) Close dialog window Supporting LGBTQ+ communities globally through Google.org grants As a company, we believe in bringing the best of Google to help solve some of humanity’s biggest challenges. That’s why Google.org is working to ensure the safety and economic opportunity of LGBTQ+ communities by supporting organizations around the world that are making a difference. From 2019 to 2021, we’ve supported over 90 organizations globally. Here are a few highlights: $2.7 million to help The Trevor Project develop new AI applications to train new counselors and scale its life-saving work for LGBTQ+ youth. We’ve also contributed over 20,000 hours of pro bono support through the Google.org Fellowship program. $2 million to support OutRight Action International’s COVID-19 recovery fund for global LGBTQ+ communities, which provides resources like food, shelter, and job training during COVID-19. Our contribution included $150,000 for a first-of-its-kind study to assess the state of activism and community in 190+ countries around the world, as well as $1 million in donated Search ads to cultivate support and boost awareness of LGBTQ+ rights throughout the globe. $1.5 million and volunteers from the Google Creative Lab to The Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual & Transgender Community Center of New York City (The Center), to support Stonewall Forever, a “living monument?? to 50 years of Pride. $1 million to help scale Reprograma’s efforts in Brazil. Reprograma offers online coding boot camps, targeting Black and transgender women, providing training and connection to jobs while diversifying the tech sector. $1.2 million to over 70 organizations around the world helping to improve the lives of LGBTQ+ people in the communities in which they operate. This commitment, made in honor of Pride 2020, was accompanied by tools and resources to help bring communities together virtually. Google employee’s quote Supporting LGBTQ+ communities has been a priority from the earliest days of Google, from our pioneering healthcare policies to our early Pride celebrations. We continue to build on that legacy everyday by prioritizing intersectional LGBTQ+ advocacy across all our platforms. Juan Rajlin (he/him) Treasurer, Google Co-Executive Sponsor of the PRIDE at Google Employee Resource Group More ways we’re building for LGBTQ+ inclusion: How Google made me proud to be out at work Read the story (Opens in a Dialog Window) Close dialog window How Google made me proud to be out at work Googler Mistral Meyers, along with other Googlers, at the 2017 New York City Pride March Your ability to bring your full self to work every day affects how you perform and contribute to an environment of belonging for others. In honor of National Coming Out Day, Googler Mistral Myers (she/her) shares her story of coming out at work and speaks to her role as a leader of the LGBTQ+ community at Google. Ongoing efforts to increase inclusion for LGBTQ+ communities at Google Learn about our journey (Opens in a Dialog Window) Close dialog window Ongoing efforts to increase inclusion for LGBTQ+ communities at Google Our very first employee resource group at Google was called the Gayglers, meant to represent LGBTQ+ employees at the company. Over the years, as Google and the ERG grew, it became clear that this name was not representative or inclusive of the whole LGBTQ+ community. In 2021, the group initiated a process to address that issue, renaming itself PRIDE at Google. This effort demonstrates how the work of inclusion is an ongoing, collective process. How we’re using machine learning to combat harassment online Learn about the tools (Opens in a Dialog Window) Close dialog window Using machine learning to combat harassment online Online toxicity disproportionately impacts the most vulnerable members of society. People of color are more likely to be harassed online, as are women, religious minorities, and people who identify as LGBTQ+. To help spot abusive content at the scale that online content requires, Jigsaw, a unit within Google, created Perspective, an API that uses machine learning to spot and control toxicity and abuse on online platforms. Jigsaw also worked with several NGOs, tech industry partners, and a group of highly targeted journalists to develop Harassment Manager, an open-source tool that allows users to document and manage abuse targeted at them on social media. Photo controls designed to respect the experiences of transgender people Learn about Google Photos controls (Opens in a Dialog Window) Close dialog window Choose the memories you revisit with Google Photos controls. We heard from the transgender community that resurfacing certain photos can be painful, so we’ve been working with our partners at GLAAD and listening to feedback to make reminiscing more inclusive. We’re using AI to power new features that resurface meaningful moments, while giving you control over what you revisit. Google Photos already includes controls to hide photos of certain people or time periods, and we’re continuing to add new ones to improve the experience through this continued partnership. Celebrating 50 years of Pride and LGBTQ+ moments throughout history Read about our work (Opens in a Dialog Window) Close dialog window Celebrating 50 years of Pride and LGBTQ+ moments throughout history From the Stonewall Forever "living monument" experience Google strives to celebrate LGBTQ+ culture and preserve important moments from history. In honor of the 50th anniversary of the Stonewall riots, we worked with partners to uplift and honor LGBTQ+ stories. The Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual & Transgender Community Center of New York City (The Center) spearheaded the creation of Stonewall Forever, an interactive “living monument?? to 50 years of Pride. Google provided support for the monument in the form of a $1.5 million grant from Google.org, and volunteers from the Google Creative Lab who helped bring the experience to life. Expert partners from the LGBTQ+ community helped Google Arts & Culture to create a digital archive featuring never-before-seen photos, videos, and 3D models of the Stonewall monument, as well as tributes to the rich history of Pride. Google Arts & Culture celebrates LGBTQ+ culture and moments throughout the year through interactive installations and artist spotlights. A first-of-its-kind economic relief fund for LGBTQ+ recovery Learn more about it (Opens in a Dialog Window) Close dialog window A first-of-its-kind economic relief fund for LGBTQ+ recovery We provided $4 million to LGBTQ+ communities around the world for Pride 2021 through Google.org. This included a $2 million grant to OutRight Action International’s COVID-19 Global LGBTIQ Emergency Fund, which is helping to provide resources like food, shelter, and job training during COVID-19. Support also includes Ad Grants to further support advocacy for LGBTQ+ human rights globally and share critical community resources. Standing in support of Black trans lives Watch the film (Opens in a Dialog Window) Close dialog window Our work to recognize and support Black trans lives Violence against transgender people, especially trans women of color, is an ongoing crisis. In addition, many attacks go unreported due to widespread transphobia and misgendering of trans women. In 2020, Google Search Trends revealed the extent to which Americans were searching to understand this long-standing crisis. We responded with a campaign to honor Black trans lives, and a $500,000 Google.org grant, which helped to provide direct cash assistance to Black trans people for COVID-19 relief. As part of this effort, Googler volunteers also provided technical and marketing support to help MPJI collect, review, and process cash assistance applications from community members in need. Helping support LGBTQ+ youth in crisis through funding and volunteer hours Learn about our work with The Trevor Project (Opens in a Dialog Window) Close dialog window Helping The Trevor Project support LGBTQ+ youth in crisis Suicide disproportionately affects LGBTQ+ youth. To support youth in crisis, The Trevor Project offers free, confidential, 24/7 crisis services via phone, chat, and text. Since 2019, Google.org has provided the Trevor Project with $2.7 million in funding and 20,000 hours of pro bono support from almost 30 Googlers through the Google.org Fellowship. In 2020, Google.org Fellows assisted The Trevor Project in building an artificial intelligence system that could identify and prioritize high-risk contacts while also reaching more people. Recent stories on LGBTQ+ inclusion: Building inclusion for transgender and gender nonconforming communities Honoring Indigenous communities around the world How a journalist is elevating African LGBTQ+ stories This creator built an LGBTQ+-friendly site for car talk Read more belonging stories on our blog (Opens in a New Browser Tab) Learn about more key issues in our work to build for belonging: Racial equity, Disability inclusion, Gender equity, Veteran inclusion Footer Links Building belonging At work In products In society Our philosophy Key issues Racial equity Disability inclusion Gender equity LGBTQ+ inclusion Veteran inclusion Resources Build inclusive products Build accessible technology Accessibility in our products Create inclusive marketing (Opens in a New Browser Tab) Reports Diversity Report 2022 Diversity Report 2021 Diversity Report 2020 (Opens in a New Browser Tab) Diversity Report 2019 (Opens in a New Browser Tab) Diversity Report 2018 (Opens in a New Browser Tab) EEO-1 Report 2021 (Equal Employment Opportunity) (Opens in a New Browser Tab) EEO-1 Report 2020 (Equal Employment Opportunity) (Opens in a New Browser Tab) EEO-1 Report 2019 (Equal Employment Opportunity) (Opens in a New Browser Tab) More about us Learning (Opens in a New Browser Tab) Safety Center (Opens in a New Browser Tab) Crisis Response (Opens in a New Browser Tab) Sustainability (Opens in a New Browser Tab) Careers (Opens in a New Browser Tab) Google blog (Opens in a New Browser Tab) Google.org (Opens in a New Browser Tab) About Google Google products Privacy Terms Cambiar idioma Español
