Supporting Diversity and Inclusion for Veterans - Google Belonging Diversity report Jump to content Belonging Overview At work In products In products What we’re doing Accessibility in our products In society Key issues Key issues Racial equity Disability inclusion Gender equity LGBTQ+ inclusion Veteran inclusion Resources Resources Build inclusive products Build accessible technology Create inclusive marketing About Google Our mission, products, and impact More about our core commitments Belonging Expanding what’s possible for everyone Learning Unlocking opportunity with education & career tools Safety Center Keeping billions of people safe online Crisis Response Helping people with information in critical moments Sustainability Committed to being carbon free by 2030 Diversity report We’re celebrating the resilience and entrepreneurial spirit of the military-affiliatedcommunity In efforts to capture the breadth of this community, we use the term "military-affiliated" to encompass Veterans, Reservists, National Guard members, active duty service members, caregivers, military spouses, partners, and family members. by providing tools to help them prosper. How we’re building belonging for the military-affiliated community at Google Learn about our work (Opens in a Dialog Window) Close dialog window How we’re building belonging for the military-affiliated community at Google We’re working to make Google a place where the military-affiliated community can thrive and grow. The Veteran-focused career website has information about resources at Google and job opportunities. Here are a few programs and policies that help strengthen the military-affiliated community here at Google: Growing the global military-affiliated community at Google through VetNet: The Google Veterans Network (VetNet) was formed to unify and connect Veterans, service members, military spouses and partners, and civilian allies. VetNet members mentor newly hired Googlers, supporting them in the transition to corporate civilian life. VetNet supports the military-affiliated community and brings more Veterans to Google by providing resume-building, training workshops, and mentorship programs, like its annual Google VetNet Career Week. With help from nearly 500 Google volunteers, VetNet has hosted hiring workshops for 1,600+ service members and their families transitioning to civilian life. VetNet also shares tips and highlights from the military-affiliated community at Google through a YouTube video series. Policies that support and strengthen the military-affiliated community: Google supports service members through a military leave policy. Google pays 100% of an employee’s salary for the first 30 calendar days of their duty. After that, Google will pay the difference in pay so the Reserve or Guard member continues to receive close to 100% of their Google salary for up to five years of service. Google also offers paid leave benefits of up to five days to military spouses and domestic partners experiencing changes of location due to military orders, or if they are preparing for deployment or activation. We’re building tools that help Veteran-owned businesses grow Find out how (Opens in a Dialog Window) Close dialog window We’re building tools that help Veteran-owned businesses grow Almost one in four service members transitioning to civilian life wants to start their own business, but many encounter barriers in their pursuit of entrepreneurship. To help mitigate these challenges, Grow with Google introduced an online resource hub with digital tools to help Veteran-owned businesses flourish. Here are a few of those tools: Merchants with a verified Business Profile on Google can add a Veteran-owned attribute, making it easier for customers to identify and support Veteran-owned businesses across the U.S. Lessons on the Primer app curated for Veteran business owners range from digital marketing to website building. We also teamed up with the U.S. Chamber of Commerce Foundation’s Hiring Our Heroes (HOH) to add more Primer mini-courses on establishing an authentic brand and maintaining work-life balance. For National Veterans Small Business Week, we offered a livestream workshop to help Veteran business owners grow a loyal customer base, and a Grow with Google OnAir workshop on building an online presence. $29M+ in programs to help the military-affiliated community build meaningful careers Learn about our efforts (Opens in a Dialog Window) Close dialog window Helping the military-affiliated community build meaningful careers Due to the nature of the mobile military lifestyle, service members and their families face particular challenges in obtaining economic mobility. That’s why we’re working to increase access to portable career credentials and employment opportunities. Since 2015, we’ve committed over $29 million to support the efforts of U.S. Veteran-serving organizations. In addition, we’re developing tools and programs to help service members and military spouses and partners prepare for careers in tech and beyond. Helping trusted military-serving organizations scale their impact through Google.org grants: In 2021, we committed a $10 million grant to help Hiring Our Heroes launch Career Forward. The new initiative is training 8,000 service members and their families in transition to the civilian workforce for in-demand jobs through access to Google Career Certificates. A $1.4 million grant to NPower is supporting their Tech Fundamentals program and helping launch careers in IT. We have pledged $10 million in ad grants over the next five years, to military- and Veteran-serving organizations. As of 2022, we’ve given $800,000 toward organizations including Code Platoon and Student Veterans of America, so they can better connect with those searching for their services on Google. Expanding digital skills training for service members and their spouses and partners in transition to the civilian workforce through tools and online workshops: Workshops are available on demand year round in English and Spanish through Grow with Google OnAir and the Grow with Google Partner Program, which includes over 1,000 military- and Veteran-serving organizations across the U.S. These trusted partners propel the workshops into communities, helping to train nearly 20,000 military members and Veterans so far. Google for Education offers an Applied Digital Skills collection with tailored lessons, including resume building and workplace skills, helping Veterans maximize their experience and prepare for their new careers. We also added two mini-courses to the Primer app specifically for military spouses and partners with tips on transitioning to remote work, working from home, and starting and growing an online business. We’re working to increase access to mental wellness resources Find out how (Opens in a Dialog Window) Close dialog window Supporting the mental well-being of service members and Veterans through technology and resources The impact of service can leave Veterans quietly battling invisible injuries, including post-traumatic stress, substance use disorder, traumatic brain injury, and depression. We are committed to supporting Veterans in mental wellness and recovery, and focusing on creating helpful tools and resources: 1 in 14 Americans is in recovery from addiction. Our Recover Together site is designed to help anyone find nearby recovery groups, information about recovery-related initiatives, and personal stories of addiction, recovery, and community to help break the stigma and end the silence. Veterans can miss out on getting mental health support due to stigma or not knowing where to turn. In hopes of increasing the visibility and availability of resources, our internal military-connected employee group, VetNet, partnered with Code of Support and other Veteran-service organizations to launch Serving Veterans, a wellness hub with mental health resources and a series of personal stories from Veterans on the value of asking for help. We’re providing resources to support the unique career journeys of military spouses and partners Learn about the MilSpouse Roadmap (Opens in a New Browser Tab) 25% of military spouses have been self-employed at some point. 1 in 3 military spouses said they have chosen to live apart from their spouses to seize career opportunities. 10%–16% of military spouses are unemployed — compared with the general rate of 3.7%. More ways we’re building for Veteran inclusion: How we’ve celebrated Veterans Day with stories of opportunity and success Learn about the campaigns (Opens in a Dialog Window) Close dialog window Celebrating Veterans Day with stories of opportunity and success Steven Tette (he/him) and his son alongside the final Doodle artwork Veterans Day is an opportunity to honor the sacrifices made by members of the U.S. armed forces. Here are a few of our past campaigns celebrating their contributions: In 2021, our internal employee community, VetNet, partnered with Army Veteran and guest artist Steven Tette to create the Veterans Day Doodle illustrating the diversity and unity of the community. Air Force Veteran and guest artist Jenn Hassin created our 2020 Veterans Day Google Doodle using deconstructed military uniforms from five branches of the military. Pete Damon began painting as a form of therapy after losing his arms while serving in the U.S. Army. In 2019, we partnered with Pete to create our Veterans Day Doodle depicting children setting up a flag display to honor those who have served. We featured an editorial bringing visibility to Veterans who have used Google programs and tools to build a successful post-service career. We celebrated Veterans on our own teams by highlighting their unique journeys to Google. A Google Search tool helping Veterans find jobs that align with their military experience Learn more about it (Opens in a Dialog Window) Close dialog window A Google Search tool helping Veterans find jobs that align with their military experience Every year 250,000 service members transition out of the military. United States service members can now enter their military occupation code (MOS, AFSC, NEC, etc.) when they search “jobs for Veterans?? and find relevant jobs that align with their military experience — making the civilian career shift easier. We’re highlighting and preserving Veterans’ stories in digital archives Learn more about #VeteransVoices (Opens in a Dialog Window) Close dialog window Using digital archives to preserve Veterans’ stories Sharing oral histories helps us transmit knowledge from one generation to the next, enhancing our understanding of the past. We’re working to honor retired and current service members from all branches of the U.S. military by listening to and archiving their lived experiences. Here are two of our recent projects: YouTube and StoryCorps teamed up to encourage people to listen and contribute to #VeteranVoices, a digital oral archive collection preserving the stories of service members past and present. We also dedicated a Veterans Day Google Doodle to celebrate the project. Google Arts & Culture partnered with the National World War I Museum and Memorial in Kansas City, Missouri, to digitize and upload hundreds of historical artifacts, creating digital exhibitions so more people can learn about Veteran history. How research is shaping our business and career tools to better support the military-affiliated community Learn about the research (Opens in a Dialog Window) Close dialog window How research is shaping our business and career tools to better support the military-affiliated community To ensure that our products and programs are set up to best serve the military-affiliated community, we’ve been teaming up with partners to study the distinct strengths and needs of this community and its role in the workforce. Google for Startups worked with Endeavor Insight to better understand the current state of Veteran entrepreneurship and the benefits that could come from increasing Veteran business creation. We have also worked with the U.S. Chamber of Commerce Foundation’s Hiring Our Heroes (HOH) to understand the challenges military spouses face when trying to find meaningful employment. In the MilSpouse Roadmap we identify three common military spouse career journeys – entrepreneurship and self-employment, remote work, and reskilling and upskilling. How we’re helping Veteran and volunteer first responders prepare and mobilize for local disasters Read about our work (Opens in a Dialog Window) Close dialog window How we’re helping Veteran and volunteer first responders prepare and mobilize for local disasters Beyond their active military years, many Veterans continue serving their communities in times of need as first responders, including firefighters and EMTs. In honor of National First Responders Day, Google launched a campaign to thank volunteers and Veterans who serve others post-disasters. To expand on our ongoing Crisis Response efforts, Google.org gave a $1 million grant to Team Rubicon, a Veteran-founded organization helping communities recover and rebuild from disasters. The grant allowed Team Rubicon to expand its Resilient Cities Initiative, and recruit, organize, and train thousands of Veterans and volunteers across 300 metropolitan areas to build out disaster preparedness operations and better respond to disasters at a local level. How we’re empowering Veterans to pursue entrepreneurship Learn about Google for Startups (Opens in a Dialog Window) Close dialog window How we’re empowering Veterans to pursue entrepreneurship Katherine Kostreva (she/her)—military spouse and founder of OnPoint—at the Bunker Labs 2019 National Summit in Seattle, WA. Veterans are uniquely qualified to handle the challenges of building a company, yet they often experience shortfalls in access to capital and networking opportunities. Google for Startups is working to empower those in transition to the civilian workforce to pursue entrepreneurship and startup work. Here are some of our recent efforts: The Google for Startups U.S. Founders Academy is a four-month program designed to equip Black, Latinx, and military Veteran founders with tools, best practices, and the community needed to raise capital and grow their revenues. Partnerships are helping us expand Google for Startups programming and resources to service members and families transitioning to civilian life. For example, we teamed up with Bunker Labs, a nonprofit helping new Veteran entrepreneurs start their own businesses, to bring the best of Google’s people, products, and expertise to their community and help scale their impact to new cities across the U.S. Google employee’s quote One of the highest values of Veterans is leadership. In the business world Veterans can play a huge part — coming in and providing positive, respectful, and dignified leadership. Chris Rackow (he/him) VP, Global Security, Google Former U.S. Navy SEAL Recent stories on Veteran inclusion: A Veteran finds a new mission to build a more inclusive world How I balance life as a Googler and military spouse An Army Veteran’s journey to Google: 5 lessons learned Navy Veteran Meghan Wilkens finds camaraderie at Google Read more stories on belonging from The Keyword blog (Opens in a New Browser Tab) Learn about more key issues in our work to build for belonging: Racial equity, Disability inclusion, Gender equity, LGBTQ+ inclusion Footer Links Building belonging At work In products In society Our philosophy Key issues Racial equity Disability inclusion Gender equity LGBTQ+ inclusion Veteran inclusion Resources Build inclusive products Build accessible technology Accessibility in our products Create inclusive marketing (Opens in a New Browser Tab) Reports Diversity Report 2022 Diversity Report 2021 Diversity Report 2020 (Opens in a New Browser Tab) Diversity Report 2019 (Opens in a New Browser Tab) Diversity Report 2018 (Opens in a New Browser Tab) EEO-1 Report 2021 (Equal Employment Opportunity) (Opens in a New Browser Tab) EEO-1 Report 2020 (Equal Employment Opportunity) (Opens in a New Browser Tab) EEO-1 Report 2019 (Equal Employment Opportunity) (Opens in a New Browser Tab) More about us Learning (Opens in a New Browser Tab) Safety Center (Opens in a New Browser Tab) Crisis Response (Opens in a New Browser Tab) Sustainability (Opens in a New Browser Tab) Careers (Opens in a New Browser Tab) Google blog (Opens in a New Browser Tab) Google.org (Opens in a New Browser Tab) About Google Google products Privacy Terms Cambiar idioma Español
