Eliminating Stereotypes in your creative - Google All In Jump to Content Inclusive Marketing Inclusive Marketing Home Teams Strategy Creative Accountability Audiences Overview Age Asian Americans Black people Indigenous people Latinos / Latinx LGBTQ+ people Disabled people Plus-size people Socioeconomic status Trans / Gender expansive U.S. Veterans Women Inclusive Marketing Jump to Content Overview Age Asian Americans Black people Indigenous people Latinos / Latinx LGBTQ+ people Disabled people Plus-size people Socioeconomic status Trans / Gender expansive U.S. Veterans Women Copy link × Audience insights for eliminating stereotypes in your creative As a brand, we are early in our journey of fully understanding the needs of representing and reaching specific audiences in our marketing. This type of research is nuanced and continuously evolving, which is why we’ve partnered with ADCOLOR, Disability:IN, the Geena Davis Institute on Gender in Media, GLAAD, Goodwill Industries International, the Hispanic Federation, the Marsha P. Johnson Institute, NAAFA, the National Congress of American Indians, the National Council on Aging and PsychArmor – organizations whose expertise we’re eager to share with others. We would like to note that these insights are based on resources we use at Google and with our partner agencies to create more thoughtful and inclusive work. They represent a starting point and will necessarily change and evolve as our understanding grows. We aim to expand this initial set of U.S.-focused resources to cover more audiences and global geographies as we learn together. built in partnership with: Age Asian Americans Black people Indigenous people Latinos / Latinx LGBTQ+ people Disabled people Plus-size people Socioeconomic status Trans / Gender expansive U.S. Veterans Women Jill Houghton, President & Chief Executive Officer, Disability:IN We’re so proud to participate in this inclusive marketing toolkit. Companies that make sure disability is culturally represented will see stronger outcomes, better ideas and outsized brand lift. What’s more, disability reaches other dimensions of diversity making it a truly intersectional demographic. Madeline Di Nonno, Chief Executive Officer, Geena Davis Institute on Gender in Media We believe there are significant opportunities to utilize these resources to inform diversity, equity and inclusion conversations internally within major brands, externally with their respective agencies and the messaging that is created and consumed by global audiences. Ross Murray, Senior Director, GLAAD LGBTQ visibility matters, and that includes professionals working behind the scenes ... Google’s marketing inclusion toolkit … should compel companies to evaluate who is in creative rooms designing campaigns and events, who is leading the execution, and which faces are seen and stories are told. Onney Crawley, Chief Marketing Officer, Goodwill Industries International To build a natural affinity with consumers, brands need to ensure their voice and persona are in alignment with the values … of their target audiences. Goodwill® is proud to partner with Google in leading the way toward a future where representation and inclusion are the norm ... Frankie Miranda, President & Chief Executive Officer, Hispanic Federation Hispanic Federation commends Google for its leadership in creating and launching their Inclusive Marketing Guidelines. Media marketing has an incredible influence on how society perceives the Latino community. Thoughtful and intentional branding campaigns can help to dismantle stereotypes and even structural racism. Ramsey Alwin, President & Chief Executive Officer, National Council on Aging It’s time for marketers to treat ageism the same as every other bias. NCOA was proud to review the guidelines, and we encourage every savvy marketer to use them in their messaging. Christian Weaver (Shinnecock), VP of Development, NCAI Building Native American/Alaska Native inclusion insights with Google consisted of thoughtful exploration of how our communities want to be seen... With NCAI’s input into Google’s Inclusive Marketing Toolkit, we hope that brands are able to find resources that will help build culturally appropriate assets. Dr. Tina Atherall, Chief Executive Officer, PsychArmor PsychArmor applauds Google’s efforts to increase cultural awareness of military, Veterans and their families … Through first hand experience and extensive research, PsychArmor’s experts were able to consult with Google about their marketing guidelines through the lens of the military affiliated communities that we represent. 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 About Google Google products Privacy Terms Español (Estados Unidos)
