Twitter Ads creative specs Skip to main content Business Creative ad specs Table of Contents 01 Promoted Ads 02 Standard Features 03 Follower Ads 04 Twitter Amplify 05 Twitter Live 06 Twitter Takeover 07 Branded Features Please note that not all of the ad formats listed below are available for self-serve advertisers. Check with your Account Manager or file a support ticket for more information. Promoted Ads Text Ads Image Ads Video Ads Carousel Ads Moment Ads Twitter Audience Platform Text Ads Image Ads Video Ads Carousel Ads Moment Ads Twitter Audience Platform Text Ads Get your message out to the world with a simple text ad. With all the elements of a standard Tweet, including likes, replies, favorites and Retweets, these native ads feel more like the rest of Twitter content and allow you to expand the reach of your Tweets beyond your followers to your desired target audience. Tweet copy: 280 characters. (Note: each link used reduces character count by 23 characters, electing 257 characters for Twitter copy.) Image Ads Highlight your best creative and drive people to your site, app, or take an action in the moment. Image Ads allow you to showcase your brand, product, or service with a single photo. They’re easy to create and can support multiple objectives. They can be Retweeted, replied to, and liked, and they’re clearly marked as “Promoted??. These specs are applicable to any Image Ad. For more specifics depending on the type of Image Ad, see below. Tweet copy: 280 characters. (Note: each link used reduces character count by 23 characters, electing 257 characters for Twitter copy.) File types: PNG and JPEG are recommended. We do not accept BMP or TIFF files. Note: GIFs uploaded will render as a static image. File size: Max 5MB Image Ads with App Buttons Image size: 800 x 418 pixels is recommended for 1.91:1 aspect ratio. 800 x 800 pixels is recommended for 1:1 aspect ratio. Aspect ratio: 1.91:1 or 1:1 App title: Truncated at 200 characters. Included from app store; not customizable. Call to Action: Install, Open, Play, Shop, Book, Connect, and Order Image Ads with Conversation Buttons Image size: 800 x 418 pixels is recommended for 1.91:1 aspect ratio. Aspect ratio: 1.91:1 Conversation Card ?(original Tweet in timeline) Tweet copy: 280 characters (same as above) Hashtag: 21 characters, including the hashtag character Pre-populated user Tweet ?(once user clicks on the CTA) Tweet copy: 256 characters Headline: 23 characters Thank You Tweet ?(after user has Tweeted out the Tweet) Thank you text: 23 characters Thank you URL (optional): 23 characters Image Ads with Polls Image size: 800 x 418 pixels is recommended for 1.91:1 aspect ratio. 800 x 800 pixels is recommended for 1:1 aspect ratio. Aspect ratio: 1.91:1 or 1:1. However, 1:1 will crop to 1.91:1 in mobile timeline. GIFs are not supported at this time. Tweet copy: Polls can include up to 280 characters of Tweet copy that appear above the image. Poll options: 2-4 custom poll options Once you’ve written your copy and added your image, you can add two to four custom poll responses to create your poll. Poll copy: 25 characters each Each poll option can include up to a maximum of 25 characters of text (which do not count against the 280 you can include in Tweet copy). Poll duration Select a time between a minimum of 5 minutes and a maximum of 7 days. Poll duration starts when the Tweet is created, not when promoted. Image Ads with Website Buttons Image size: 800 x 418 pixels is recommended for 1.91:1 aspect ratio. 800 x 800 pixels is recommended for 1:1 aspect ratio. Aspect ratio: 1.91:1 or 1:1 Website title length: 70 characters. Please note — depending on device and app settings this description may truncate. Up to two lines of text are rendered on the card title; any text beyond that is truncated with an ellipsis. Although not guaranteed, limiting the description to 50 characters should ensure that truncation won’t occur across most devices. URL: must begin with http:// or https:// Standalone Image Ads Image size: 1200 x 1200 pixels is recommended for 1:1 aspect ratio. 1200 x 628 pixels is recommended for 1.91:1 aspect ratio. Larger images will be better optimized for when users click to expand images. Aspect ratio: 1.91:1 or 1:1. Please note that the legacy composer supports any aspect ratio between 2:1 and 1:1. Video Ads Capture attention and tell a strong story with a visually engaging video ad. Video Ads allow you to showcase your brand, product or service and bring them to life through video. They’re easy to create and can be used to drive people to a website, app, or simply to engage with your brand’s message. These specs are applicable to any Video Ad. For more specifics depending on the type of Video Ad, see below. Tweet copy: 280 characters. (Note: each link used reduces character count by 23 characters, electing 257 characters for Twitter copy.) File types: MP4 or MOV File size: 1 GB max. For optimal performance we strongly recommend to keep files under 30 MB. Video length: 15 seconds or less is recommended. Up to 2:20 is supported. (Select advertisers are eligible to request an increase up to 10 minutes; however, we advise videos to be 9:55 to account for a range of video files. Please contact your Twitter Account Manager for more information.) Branding: Highly recommended throughout; if using a logo, it should be persistent in the upper left hand corner. Prominent product placement is highly recommended for driving product consideration. Captions: Closed captioning or text overlays are strongly recommended. Video bitrate: 6,000 - 10,000k (recommended 6,000k) for 1080p. 5,000k - 8,000k (recommended 5,000k) for 720p. Frame rate: 29.97FPS or 30FPS. Higher is acceptable (support up to 60FPS). If the available video has a lower frame rate don’t try to “upsample?? it. Audio codec: AAC LC (low complexity) Video codec recommendation: H264, Baseline, Main, or High Profile with a 4:2:0 color space. Thumbnail Supported files: PNG or JPEG Aspect ratio: recommend matching sizing of the video Max size: 5MB Looping: Videos will loop if the video length is under 60 seconds. Standalone Video Ads Video size: 1200 x 1200 pixels is recommended for 1:1 aspect ratio. 1920 x 1080 pixels is recommended for 16:9 aspect ratio. Larger videos will be better optimized for when users click to expand videos. Aspect ratio: 16:9 or 1:1. Please note that the legacy composer supports any aspect ratio between 2:1 and 1:1. Video Ads with Website Buttons Video size: 800 x 450 pixels is recommended for 16:9 aspect ratio. 800 x 800 pixels is recommended for 1:1 aspect ratio. Aspect ratio: 16:9 or 1:1 Website title length: 70 characters. Please note — depending on device and app settings this description may truncate. Up to two lines of text are rendered on the card title; any text beyond that is truncated with an ellipsis. Although not guaranteed, limiting the description to 50 characters should ensure that truncation won’t occur across most devices. URL: must begin with http:// or https:// Video Ads with App Buttons Video size: 800 x 450 pixels is recommended for 16:9 aspect ratio. 800 x 800 pixels is recommended for 1:1 aspect ratio. Aspect ratio: 16:9 or 1:1 App title: Truncated at 200 characters. Included from app store; not customizable. Call to Action: Install, Open, Play, Shop, Book, Connect, and Order Video Ads with Conversation Buttons Video size: 800 x 450 pixels is recommended for 16:9 aspect ratio. Aspect ratio: 16:9 Conversation Card ?(original Tweet in timeline) Tweet copy: 280 characters (same as above) Hashtag: 21 characters, including the hashtag character Pre-populated user Tweet ?(once user clicks on the CTA) Tweet copy: 256 characters Headline: 23 characters Thank You Tweet ?(after user has Tweeted out the Tweet) Thank you text: 23 characters Thank you URL (optional): 23 characters Video Ads with Polls Video size: 800 x 450 pixels is recommended for 16:9 aspect ratio. 800 x 800 pixels is recommended for 1:1 aspect ratio. Aspect ratio: 16:9 or 1:1. However, 1:1 will crop to 16:9 in mobile timeline. GIFs are not supported at this time. Tweet copy: Polls can include up to 280 characters of Tweet copy that appear above the video. Poll options: 2-4 custom poll options Once you’ve written your copy and added your video, you can add two to four custom poll responses to create your poll. Poll copy: 25 characters each Each poll option can include up to a maximum of 25 characters of text (which do not count against the 280 you can include in Tweet copy). Poll duration Select a time between a minimum of 5 minutes and a maximum of 7 days. Carousel Ads Tell a story and drive users to your website or app — all within a single ad. Carousels give marketers up to 6 horizontally swipeable images or videos to showcase multiple products or promotions, advance a narrative across several visuals, and highlight the most exciting features of a product. Number of slides: 2-6 (Images or Videos) Media size Image Carousels: 800 x 418 pixels is recommended for 1.91:1 aspect ratio. 800 x 800 pixels is recommended for 1:1 aspect ratio. Video Carousels: 800 x 450 pixels is recommended for 16:9 aspect ratio. 800 x 800 pixels is recommended for 1:1 aspect ratio. Aspect ratio Image Carousels: 1.91:1 or 1:1 image assets using a single aspect ratio within one carousel. Video Carousels: 16:9 or 1:1 video assets using a single aspect ratio within one carousel. For Carousels using mixed media, aspect ratios should remain consistent (1:1 image asset with 1:1 video asset, or 1.91:1 image asset with 16:9 video asset). Link: One web or app destination for single-destination Carousels. Up to six unique web destinations for multi-destination Carousels. Learn more about Carousel Ads Website Carousels Website title length: 70 characters. Please note — depending on device and app settings this description may truncate. Up to two lines of text are rendered on the card title; any text beyond that is truncated with an ellipsis. Although not guaranteed, limiting the description to 50 characters should ensure that truncation won’t occur across most devices. This is customizable per card. URL: must begin with http:// or https:// App Carousels App title: Truncated at 200 characters. Included from app store; not customizable. Call to Action: Install, Open, Play, Shop, Book, Connect, and Order. Moment Ads Tell a story that goes beyond one Tweet and highlights different perspectives. Moment Ads allow you to create, curate and promote a collection of Tweets to tell an immersive story that's beyond 280 characters. They're effective for stories both big and small; available to both advertisers and publishers. Twitter Audience Platform Seamlessly scale your campaigns from Twitter to thousands of high-quality publishers. In just one click, Twitter Audience Platform easily extends your mobile app promotion or website traffic campaigns to Twitter and thousands of other apps to drive performance at scale. Twitter Audience Platform can leverage your campaign’s existing creative, saving you the hassle and cost of developing new assets. Standard Features Conversation Button Polls Conversation Button Polls Conversation Button Drive engagement and conversation with embedded buttons that prompt users to Tweet about your brand to their followers. Conversation Buttons are standard features that can be added to Promoted Ads that include call to action buttons with customizable hashtags. Once clicked, the button creates a pre-populated Tweet that users can customize or Tweet out. Conversation Buttons have proven to be an effective way of engaging with customers, and driving them to share a brand’s message. Conversation Card ?(original Tweet in timeline) Tweet copy: 280 characters Hashtag: 21 characters, including the hashtag character Pre-populated user Tweet ?(once user clicks on the CTA) Tweet copy: 256 characters Headline: 23 characters Thank You Tweet ?(after user has Tweeted out the Tweet) Thank you text: 23 characters Thank you URL (optional): 23 characters Conversation Buttons must be paired with media (image or video). See above for media specifications when paired with Image Ads or Video Ads. Polls Engage your audience and gain valuable insights by adding interactive polls to your ads. Polls are a great way to engage with followers and prompt users to engage with your content. Combining polls with visual elements gives users something specific and eye catching to orient your question around. Tweet copy: Polls can include up to 280 characters of Tweet copy. Poll options: 2-4 custom poll options You can add two to four custom poll responses to create your poll. Poll copy: 25 characters each Each poll option can include up to a maximum of 25 characters of text (which do not count against the 280 you can include in Tweet copy). Poll duration Select a time between a minimum of 5 minutes and a maximum of 7 days. Poll duration starts when the Tweet is created, not when promoted. Polls can be created with or without media (image or video). See above for media specifications when paired with Image Ads or Video Ads. Follower Ads Build awareness and attract new followers by promoting an account to a targeted audience. Follower Ads are designed to increase visibility and grow your followers. They appear as Promoted Tweets in the person’s timeline, and as Promoted Accounts in the Who to Follow boxes on the Home, Profile, and Search results pages. Tweet copy: 280 characters. (Note: each link used reduces character count by 23 characters, electing 257 characters for Twitter copy.) Ensure there is actionable copy for this ad product. Note: Creatives aren't supported for this objective, only Tweet copy. The follower card will auto-render on your ads. Twitter Amplify More on Amplify Amplify Pre-roll Amplify Sponsorships Amplify Pre-roll Amplify Sponsorships Amplify Pre-roll Run pre-roll ads to align your brand with brand-safe, premium content your customers are already watching — including highlights and top clips. From catching must-see sports highlights to sharing reactions to the season finale, audiences love that they can discover what’s happening with video on Twitter. Amplify Pre-roll aligns your brand with in-feed video content from 200+ premium, brand-safe video publishers, including top TV networks, major sports leagues, and professional news outlets. Get in front of your audience with pre-roll ads that kick off the videos they’re interested in. File size: Maximum file size is 1GB. Video length: Recommended 15 seconds or less. Max: 2 minutes and 20 seconds. File types: MP4 or MOV Video aspect ratio: 1:1 is recommended as it will always render as square on desktop and mobile, timeline and profile. This and 9:16 (vertical) will take up the same amount of real estate, which is more than 16:9. Your ad will automatically be matched with publisher content that has a similar aspect ratio when available, but we recommend taking a look at the kind of publisher content you’d like to run on and planning to mirror trends in aspect ratio Recommended video size: 1200 x 1200 (minimum for 1:1 is 600 x 600) If not a 1:1 aspect ratio: 640x360 minimum URL (optional): must begin with http:// or https:// Branding: Highly recommended throughout (keeping in mind that Amplify Sponsorships have product overlays in the top left and bottom right and left corners for publisher video previews, ad countdowns, etc.) Captions: Closed captioning or text overlays are strongly recommended. Video bitrate recommendation: 6,000 - 10,000k (recommended 6,000k) for 1080p. 5,000k - 8,000k (recommended 5,000k) for 720p. Frame rate recommendation: 29.97FPS or 30FPS. Higher is acceptable. If the available video has a lower frame rate don’t try to “upsample?? it. Audio codec recommendation: AAC LC (low complexity) Video codec recommendation: h264, baseline, main or high profile with a 4:2:0 color space. Amplify Sponsorships Own the best video content and build brand association by pairing yourself with a leading publisher via an exclusive one-to-one Amplify Sponsorship package. Every sponsorship is unique. When you sponsor an event, moment, or show on Twitter, we work with our publisher partners to create packages that are right for you, such as pre-roll ads before video clips, pre-roll ads before live video, and branded content integrations. When the crowd cheers and the world celebrates, your brand can be right there, connected with what’s happening. File size: Max 1 GB. Video length: 6 seconds or less recommended. Max: 2 minutes and 20 seconds. File type: MP4 or MOV Aspect ratio: 16x9 or 1x1 recommended, dependent on publisher content Recommended video size: 1200 x 1200 (minimum for 1:1 is 600 x 600) Any height is acceptable, but if the height exceeds the width, the video will be cropped to 1:1 in the feed. If not a 1:1 aspect ratio: 640x360 minimum URL (optional): must begin with http:// or https:// Branding: Highly recommended throughout (keeping in mind that Amplify Pre-roll has product overlays in the top left and bottom right and left corners for publisher video previews, ad countdowns, etc.) Captions: Closed captioning or text overlays are strongly recommended. Twitter Live Create a moment, broadcast it to the world, and allow your audience to interact with you in real time with Twitter Live. Top marketers are choosing to livestream their biggest events on Twitter. From product launches and conferences to watch parties and fashion shows, Twitter Live helps brands maximize their Live content and drive conversation. Twitter advises on content strategy and guides the execution of your live video content. Recommended stream specifications Please follow the stream specifications recommendation below for the best Producer experience. Please note: The list of supported encoders and services is not exhaustive and is subject to change. RTMP Video codec: H.264/AVC Video bitrate: 9Mbps (recommended), 12Mbps (maximum) Audio codec: AA-LC Audio bitrate: 128bps (maximum) Resolution 1280x720 (recommended) 1920x1080 (maximum) Frame rate 30 fps (recommended) 60 fps (maximum) Keyframe interval OBS: Every 3 seconds Wirecast: 24 fbs = Keyframe interval of 72 frames 30 fbs = Keyframe interval of 90 frames 50 fbs = Keyframe interval of 150 frames 60 fbs = Keyframe interval of 180 frames Supported encoders and services: Restream Golightstream Socialive OBS Wirecast Teradek Elemental Vmix StreamYard Streamlabs Event page specifications Event page description: 280 characters max. NEW: Can contain external links! (pre-orders, ticket sales, other O&O site) Carousel: Max 5 videos. Can be multiple live, VOD, GIFS, Photos. Requires additional investment – see pricing sheet. Hashtag: Autopopulating hashtag when Tweets are composed in Tweet bar. Timeline Tweet: Pulls in Tweets specific terms. Max 5 terms. For example: hashtags, keywords & phrases, executive names. Twitter Takeover More on Twitter Takeover Timeline Takeover Trend Takeover & Trend Takeover + Timeline Takeover Trend Takeover & Trend Takeover + Timeline Takeover The first ad of the day at the top of the conversation. Timeline Takeover puts your brand at the top of the conversation as the first ad of the day. People come to Twitter to discover what’s happening. With Timeline Takeover, your ad is the first ad that will appear when someone opens Twitter for the first time that day. Don’t just be a part of what’s happening, be what’s happening with Timeline Takeover. Tweet copy: specs for a Timeline Takeover placement will depend on the format used. Reference individual specs pages for the format you want to run. Supported formats: Image Ads Video Ads Carousel Ads Twitter Live Promoted Ads with Conversation Buttons and Polls Branded Hashtags Branded Notifications Trend Takeover & Trend Takeover+ The ad placed alongside what’s trending. Trend Takeover puts your ad alongside what’s trending. Trend Takeover+ adds immersive creative to your message. Displayed alongside what’s trending, Trend Takeover puts your message where the conversations starts—the Explore tab. The Explore tab puts what’s trending on Twitter in one spot. Don’t just be a part of what’s happening, be what’s happening with Trend Takeovers. Trend Takeover Trend hashtag (required): Appears on the homepage of Twitter.com for all users within a Trend’s region and within the Explore tab on mobile. 20 characters max. Trend description (optional but highly recommended): Appears directly below the Trend Hashtag on the homepage of Twitter.com for all users within a Trend’s region and within the Explore tab on mobile. 70 characters max. Companion Promoted Ad (required): Craft 3-6 Promoted Ads (can be image, video, gif, etc) to support the trend. These are eligible to show in the home timeline for users on both web and mobile, making the trend more discoverable. Trend Takeover+ Note: The Trend Takeover+ placement is not age-gated. Please ensure the GIF or image asset provided is appropriate for all ages (i.e. no weapons, guns, nudity, violence, etc.). File types: 6-second looping GIF, MP4, or static image Aspect ratio: 16:9 (for both GIF and images) File size: 5MB for image, 15MB for GIF Trend hashtag: Max 16 characters Trend description: Max 30 characters Creative must be delivered to Twitter via a darkTweet, with media (either GIF, MP4, or image) only. Media in card formats cannot be accepted. Trend name & description: Don’t duplicate hashtag in both Trend Name and Description. Trend Takeover+ will be attributed to @brandhandle, so no need to overtly brand the Description field. Use the Description to provide further context to your trend, make it declarative & intriguing. Avoid click-bait phrases such as “50% off??, “Buy One Get One Free??, “Limited Time Only??, etc. Branded Features Branded Hashtags Branded Notifications Branded Hashtags Branded Notifications Branded Hashtags Express your brand’s personality and immediately make it a part of the conversation by adding a fun, visually appealing creative element whenever your hashtag is used on Twitter. Branded Hashtags allow a brand to add a fun, visually appealing creative element whenever its hashtag is used on Twitter. They make a brand come alive by expressing the brand’s personality and immediately making it a part of the conversation. Up to 5 #Hashtags associated with Emoji Any desired hashtag cannot exceed 250 mentions on Twitter over the last 30 days, unless directly related to brand conversation (more than 70%). Emoji Design must be designed at 72x72 pixels, and must be clearly visible at 16x16. Can be displayed on light or dark background; recommend not using all light colors - won’t be visible in the timeline. Simplicity is key! Keep details to a minimum to maximize message and to make sure it doesn't get lost when minimized No multiple faces/logos - these become too small and indistinguishable at 16x16 Branded Notifications Branded Notifications enable advertisers to have 1-1 conversations with customers at scale, delivering time-triggered, automated @mention Tweets directly to opted-in users at the moments that matter the most. Advertisers configure and launch Branded Notifications campaign using Arrow, a third-party autoresponse platform developed by IC Group in collaboration with Twitter Next. Branded Notifications are available in three campaign formats: Scheduled Notification campaigns deliver an instant opt-in notification Tweet and single scheduled notification Tweet to each opted-in person. Subscription Notifications campaigns deliver an instant opt-in notification Tweet and multiple scheduled notification Tweets to each opted-in person. Instant Notification campaigns deliver an instant notification Tweet to each opted-in person. More on Branded Notifications Branded Notifications call-to-action (CTA) and notification Tweets should follow Twitter’s standard Promoted Ad specs. Arrow enables advertisers to use the following ad formats in CTA and notification Tweets: Standalone Image and Video Ads Image and Video Ads with Web Button Image and Video Ads with App Button Image and Video Carousel Ads with Web Button (single destination) Image and Video Carousel Ads with App Button (single destination) Image and Video Ads with Conversation Button Moment Ads Click below for the content requirements for each Branded Notifications campaign format. Scheduled Notification CTA Tweet Must clearly describe that the user will receive a future Tweet from the brand if they like the CTA Tweet. Must clearly describe what content the user will receive and when the user will receive a scheduled Notification Tweet. Instant Opt-In Notification Tweet Must begin with the opted-in user’s @handle; use @HandleToReplyTo as a placeholder. Do not @mention any other user for whom you do not have explicit permission. Confirm that a user has opted in to receive automated content. Must provide opt-out instructions in the Tweet copy. Arrow provides three options for the brand to choose from. Scheduled Notification Tweet Must begin with the opted-in user’s @handle; use @HandleToReplyTo as a placeholder. Do not @mention any other user for whom you do not have explicit permission. Deliver the content promised in the CTA Tweet. Timing Scheduled Notification campaigns may run for a max of 30 days from when the first CTA Tweet is published to when the scheduled Notification Tweet is sent. Subscription Notifications CTA Tweet Must clearly describe that the user will receive multiple Tweets from the brand if they like the CTA Tweet. Must clearly describe what content the user will receive and when the user will receive scheduled Notification Tweets. Instant Opt-In Notification Tweet Must begin with the opted-in user’s @handle; use @HandleToReplyTo as a placeholder. Do not @mention any other user for whom you do not have explicit permission. Confirm that a user has opted in to receive automated content. Must provide opt-out instructions in the Tweet copy. Arrow provides three options for the brand to choose from. Scheduled Notification Tweets Must begin with the opted-in user’s @handle; use @HandleToReplyTo as a placeholder. Do not @mention any other user for whom you do not have explicit permission. Deliver the content promised in the CTA Tweet. Must provide opt-out instructions in the Tweet copy. Arrow provides three options for the brand to choose from. Timing Subscription Notifications campaigns may run for a max of 30 days per scheduled notification Tweet included, from when the first CTA Tweet is published to when the final scheduled Notification Tweet is sent. For example, a Subscription Notifications campaign with 3 scheduled notification Tweets may run for 90 days. Instant Notification CTA Tweet Must clearly describe that the user will receive a Tweet from the brand if they like the CTA Tweet. Must clearly describe what content the user will receive. Instant Notification Tweet Must begin with the opted-in user’s @handle; use @HandleToReplyTo as a placeholder. Do not @mention any other user for whom you do not have explicit permission. Timing Instant Notification campaigns may run for a max of 30 days after the first CTA Tweet is published. Additional information Branded Notifications are currently available to all managed advertisers in the US and Canada. Branded Notifications are also available to global advertisers working with Twitter Next. Consult with your Twitter Account Manager to learn more. Branded Notifications campaigns must adhere to the Twitter Rules, Twitter Ads Policies, and Automation Rules. Only public Twitter accounts can opt-in to a Branded Notifications campaign. Advertisers must grant a third-party automation platform (Arrow by IC Group) access to their Twitter account using Twitter OAuth. Advertisers must have a verified Twitter account to use Branded Notifications. Twitter Ads Manager provides full metrics for the promoted CTA Tweets, but reporting and metrics are limited for notification Tweets. App or device notifications for notification Tweets (@mentions) may be disabled by users’ personal device or account settings. Having trouble creating an ad? Get answers to common FAQs Having an issue with your creative? File a support ticket Twitter platform Twitter.com Status Accessibility Embed a Tweet Privacy Center Transparency Center Twitter, Inc. About the company Twitter for Good Company news Brand toolkit Jobs and internships Investors Help Help Center Using Twitter Twitter for creators Ads Help Center Managing your account Email Preference Center Rules and policies Contact us Developer resources Developer home Documentation Forums Communities Developer blog Engineering blog Developer terms Business resources Advertise Twitter for business Resources and guides Twitter for marketers Marketing insights Brand inspiration Twitter Flight School © 2022 Twitter, Inc. Cookies Privacy Terms and conditions English Business Deutsch English Español Français Português ??? ??????? ???? By using Twitter’s services you agree to our Cookies Use. We use cookies for purposes including analytics, personalisation, and ads. OK This page and certain other Twitter sites place and read third party cookies on your browser that are used for non-essential purposes including targeting of ads. Through these cookies, Google, LinkedIn and NewsCred collect personal data about you for their own purposes. Learn more. Accept Decline
